---
content_type: page
description: This section contains list of Films and their Summaries.
learning_resource_types: []
ocw_type: CourseSection
title: Study Materials
uid: 47b7c747-5fa2-13d7-674a-c2a111b766ee
---

Fluid Mechanics Films
---------------------

{{< tableopen >}}
{{< theadopen >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< thopen >}}
FILMS
{{< thclose >}}
{{< thopen >}}
SUMMARY
{{< thclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}

{{< theadclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
_Vorticity_. Produced by Educational Services Incorporated; with Ascher H. Shapiro. Directed by Jack Churchill. Photographed by Abraham Morochnik. Graphic arts by R. Paul Larkin. Edited by Paul Galan. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1980). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1961. Videorecording.
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Ascher H. Shapiro presents experimental demonstrations of phenomena relating to vorticity, to circulation, and to the theorems of Crocco, Kelvin, and Helmholtz.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Lumley, John L. _Deformation Continuous Media_. Produced by Educational Services Incorporated. Directed by Quentin Brown. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1985). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1963. Videorecording.
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Explains deformation and its resolution into component motions. Presents an analysis of deforming patterns, marked on a shear flow in a stationary reference frame and in a reference frame rotating with the pattern.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Bryson, Arthur E. _Waves in Fluids_. Produced by Educational Services Incorporated. Directed by Quentin Brown. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1985). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1964. Videorecording. (Note: Made for the National Committee for Fluid Mechanics Films)
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Visualizes some of the basic phenomena of wave motion in fluids.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
_Low Reynolds Number Flows_. Produced by Educational Services, Incorporated; with Sir G. I. Taylor. Produced and directed by John Friedman. Photographed by Abraham Morochnik. Edited by Jack Hirschfeld. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1985). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1966. Videorecording.
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Sir Geoffrey I. Taylor describes and discusses characteristics of the motion of fluids using a variety of models and demonstrates how in low Reynolds number flows a rough estimate is provided by the Reynolds number scale of the relative importance of inertia and viscosity.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Trefethen, Lloyd. _Surface Tension in Fluid Mechanics_. Produced by Educational Serviced Incorporated. Directed by Jack Churchill. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1985). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1963. Videorecording.
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Presents a series of experiments to show that surfaces exert forces. Defines the fundamental boundary conditions governing the effects of these forces. Includes illustrations of nucleation, "wine tears," swimming bubbles, and high speed pictures of the breakup of water sheets and soap films.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Mollo-Christensen, Erik. _Flow Instabilities_. Produced by Education Development Center Incorporated. Produced and directed by Alan H. Pesetsky. Chicago, IL: Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corp, (1985). Originally issued as 16 mm. motion picture in 1968. Videorecording.
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Shows surface waves generated by wind in a water channel to illustrate the general features of flow instability.
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}

{{< tableclose >}}